# August 2019

The summer has passed in the northern hemisphere and it is time for the next Qlik Core update. There are a number of
updates in this version that we hope you will like, some of the key highlights include:

## Introducing context in corectl

Contexts store connection information such as engine url, certificates and headers, similar to a config. The main
difference between contexts and configs is that they can be used globally. Using the context you can quickly switch
between different environments such as local, stage, production, Qlik Core and Qlik Sense Enterprise.

Use the context sub-commands `clear`, `get`, `ls`, `rm`, `set`, `use` to work with the context. Note that contexts have
the lowest precedence. This means that e.g. an --engine flag (or an engine field in a config) will override the engine
url in the current context.

As an example you can setup two contexts:

```bash
corectl context set testapps --engine localhost:39076 --comment "All my local test apps"
corectl context set deployment --engine wss://<qlik-sense-url>:4747 --certificates <certfolder> --headers "X-Qlik-User: UserDirectory=<userdir>; UserId=<userid>"
corectl context ls
```

and switch between them using while using the same load script file.

```bash
corectl context use testapps
corectl script set script.qvs --app test
corectl reload

corectl context use deployment
corectl script set script.qvs --app deployedapp
corectl reload
```

## Other fixes

* corectl: Fixed URL escaping in json files to improve readability of expressions.
* catwalk: Added full title when hoovering over an application in the document list.
* catwalk: Added information about supported browsers. Firefox is now fully supported.

## New versions

`Change to 1.3.0 when it has been released!`
A new corectl version [1.2.0](https://github.com/qlik-oss/corectl/releases/tag/v1.2.0) includes all the latest features.
As always, you can get the latest by using `brew upgrade`, `snap refresh` or downloading from
[GitHub](https://github.com/qlik-oss/corectl/releases).
